URL: https://groups.google.com/forum/#!topic/rec.games.frp/o5ya4ZrPgkI
TITLE: Msg 9 of 13: Other Suns/Chapter 2 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Saturday, 5 January 1991 19:49:26 UTC - Nicolai Shapero:
      OTHER SUNS -- COPYRIGHT 1982, 1991 by N. C. Shapero
           Chapter 2:  Characteristics  (Part 9 of 13)
DODGE (DOD)

The Dodge is adventurer's ability to avoid being where an  attack 
is directed.  The dodge ability, unlike the Martial Arts  Evasion 
skill (described in detail in CHAPTER 5, SPECIALTIES AND SKILLS), 
may  not be used to avoid attacks with most modern high  velocity 
or  energy weapons (it may be applied against the taser  and  the 
shoulder  fired  rocket,  both described  in  CHAPTER  9,  COMBAT 
SKILLS).  In addition, it may not be applied against area  effect 
weapons  (such as hand grenades -- also described in CHAPTER  9).  
In  addition, if the adventurer is immobilized,  unconscious,  or 
surprised, his dodge ability may not be employed.

A  negative value for the natural dodge ability is treated  as  a 
zero  dodge ability in combat (thus, it is no easier than  normal 
for  the  attacker  to  hit a  creature  with  a  negative  dodge 
ability).

How the Dodge Works

Applied versus a Single Opponent's Single Attack

An  attacker must subtract the defender's Dodge ability from  his 
attack,  PROVIDED that the defender could see the attack  coming.  
If an opponent has a dodge ability of 14%, and the attacker has a 
47%  chance of hitting with a broadsword, then the  attacker  has 
only a 33% chance of hitting that opponent with his attack.

Applied versus Multiple Opponents

When facing several foes or multiple attacks from a single  oppo-
nent  in one melee round, a character may apply all of his  Dodge 
ability against against one attack, hoping the all other  attacks 
will  miss, divide his Dodge among the attacks of all  the  oppo-
nents, or dodge some, but not all of his foes' attacks.

Thus, a character with a 40% Dodge against four attackers each of 
whom  is attacking once in the melee round may apply all  of  his 
Dodge  against one, or put whatever Dodge he wishes against  each 
foe,  so long as the total Dodge applied against all  attacks  in 
that melee round totals no more than 40%.

How Dodge is Increased

As  a character's DEX or WILL increases, his Dodge  ability  will 
also  increase.  And each time that his Dodge saves him  from  an 
attack  (i.e. the use of the Dodge ability resulted in an  attack 
failing  where it would otherwise have succeeded) the  adventurer 
has  a  chance  of increasing his Dodge ability  by  1D10%.   The 
player  must  roll the INT of the character or less on  1D100  in 
order  for the Dodge ability to increase through use.  This  roll 
may be attempted once for each successful use of the Dodge abili-
ty  during the course of an expedition, though the Dodge  ability 
may only be increased once per expedition.  (Thus if Mikhail  An-
dreivitch  used the Dodge ability three times in  an  expedition, 
the player running this character would have three  opportunities 
to roll 17 or less on 1D100.  And even if two of those rolls were 
made, the Dodge ability would only improve once for this  expedi-
tion, by 1D10 percentile points).

NOTE:   This  rule is in total contrast to the  usual  experience 
increasing rules shown elsewhere.

                  (Continued in next message)




--  
Nicolai Shapero
Internet: Nicolai...@f524.n102.z1.fidonet.org <>
Compuserve: >internet:Nic...@f524.n102.z1.fidonet.org <>
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
